README.md, before:

# forth-stuff

This repo includes some forth programming knowledge I wanted to jot down because it helps understand how bitcoin script works.

## Install

Using the package from https://github.com/h8gi/fifth (a forth interpreter that runs as a command line repl):


```
go get github.com/h8gi/fifth
```

The `fifth` executable should be in `$GOPATH/bin/fifth` after `go get`.

## Usage 

Clone this repo, then you can...

### 1. Run example forth programs

Make `examples.sh` executable then build the project and run `./examples.sh`.

```
chmod u+x examples.sh
go build main.go
./examples.sh
```
![Output](example.png)

You can modify `./examples.sh` to add additional programs to the output.

### 2. Run interactive fifth repl

`main.go` is an implementation of the `fifth` repl run as a go program instead of a binary in `$GOPATH`. If installed correctly through `go get` in the above Install section then you should be able to run the `fifth` program in terminal.

Make sure your $GOPATH is part of your $PATH bash environment variable, then run:
```
fifth
```

Alternatively you can `go run main.go` to access the repl through the `h8gi/fifth` library.

## Why?

This repo should help you understand the reverse polish notation language that Bitcoin script is modeled after. That language is called forth. Using the example script in this repo or by using the fifth repl you can try out different forth programs to better understand how Bitcoin script works.

Follow along with this YouTube video and run the fifth repl interactively to see how it works! 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8FeAXjkmDcQ

Commit message:

Add bitcoin book to README alongside YouTube video

README.md, after:

# forth-stuff

This repo includes some forth programming knowledge I wanted to jot down because it helps understand how bitcoin script works.

## Install

Using the package from https://github.com/h8gi/fifth (a forth interpreter that runs as a command line repl):


```
go get github.com/h8gi/fifth
```

The `fifth` executable should be in `$GOPATH/bin/fifth` after `go get`.

## Usage 

Clone this repo, then you can...

### 1. Run example forth programs

Make `examples.sh` executable then build the project and run `./examples.sh`.

```
chmod u+x examples.sh
go build main.go
./examples.sh
```
![Output](example.png)

You can modify `./examples.sh` to add additional programs to the output.

### 2. Run interactive fifth repl

`main.go` is an implementation of the `fifth` repl run as a go program instead of a binary in `$GOPATH`. If installed correctly through `go get` in the above Install section then you should be able to run the `fifth` program in terminal.

Make sure your $GOPATH is part of your $PATH bash environment variable, then run:
```
fifth
```

Alternatively you can `go run main.go` to access the repl through the `h8gi/fifth` library.

## Why?

This repo should help you understand the reverse polish notation language that Bitcoin script is modeled after. That language is called forth. Using the example script in this repo or by using the fifth repl you can try out different forth programs to better understand how Bitcoin script works.

Follow along with this YouTube video or this chapter of Andreas M. Antonopoulos's Bitcoin Book and run the fifth repl interactively to see how it works: 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8FeAXjkmDcQ

https://github.com/bitcoinbook/bitcoinbook/blob/develop/ch07.asciidoc
